## 9.1 Demonstrate ability to customize sales operations

## Describe how to modify order processing and integrate it with a third-party ERP system
To modify the process of order processing, use plugin([https://belvg.com/blog/designing-complex-solutions-using-plugins-in-magento-2.html](https://belvg.com/blog/designing-complex-solutions-using-plugins-in-magento-2.html)) or observer.
You can create a plugin for either placeOrder or submitQuote function from Magento\Quote\Model\QuoteManagement class or create an observer for each of the events:
- sales_model_service_quote_submit_before
- sales_model_service_quote_submit_success
- sales_model_service_quote_submit_failure
- checkout_submit_before
- checkout_submit_all_after 
  
This allows to integrate a custom logic into the order creation process (for example, sending the data to the third-party ERP system side).

## Describe how to modify order processing flow. How would you add new states and statuses for an order?
To modify states or statuses programmatically, use setStatus and setState methods. To add a new record into the order 
history, apply addStatusToHistory method.
```php
$order->setState(\Magento\Sales\Model\Order::STATE_PROCESSING);

$order->setStatus('processing');

$order->addStatusToHistory($order->getStatus(), 'Custom Message');

$order->save();
````
You can create a new status via the admin panel (navigate to Stores -> Order Status) or via setup script
(class \Magento\Sales\Setup\Patch\Data\InstallOrderStatusesAndInitialSalesConfig).  Adding a new state is possible only 
via setup script.

## Described how to customize invoices.
To create an Invoice, use class \Magento\Sales\Model\Service\InvoiceService and its method prepareInvoice that utilizes
\Magento\Sales\Model\Order\Invoice.  If you need to introduce a custom logic into the invoice creating process,  use one
of the following events: sales_order_invoice_pay, sales_order_invoice_cancel, sales_order_invoice_register or create a plugin for
\Magento\Sales\Model\Service\InvoiceService::prepareInvoice method

Invoice can have one of the following states:
- STATE_OPEN
- STATE_PAID
- STATE_CANCELED

It can also have two types – online invoice and offline invoice.
Online invoice calls the capture method for payment method, which, in its turn, sends a query to the payment system. 
Offline invoice modifies the payment information only on Magento side.
## Describe refund functionality in Magento
Credit Memo is responsible in Magento 2 for the refund, allowing to return the order partially or completely. Also, 
refund can be offline and online (depending on the order type). The difference between offline and online lies in the 
following: offline refund is performed on Magento side and does not send any requests to the payment processing system, 
while online refund sends a query to the payment system.

Example of _void method in \Magento\Sales\Model\Order\Payment :
```php
protected function _void($isOnline, $amount = null, $gatewayCallback = 'void')
    {
        $order = $this->getOrder();
        $authTransaction = $this->getAuthorizationTransaction();
        $this->setTransactionId(
            $this->transactionManager->generateTransactionId($this, Transaction::TYPE_VOID, $authTransaction)
        );
        $this->setShouldCloseParentTransaction(true);

        // attempt to void
        if ($isOnline) {
            $method = $this->getMethodInstance();
            $method->setStore($order->getStoreId());
            $method->{$gatewayCallback}($this);
        }
}
````
Magento 2 Enterprise Edition also allows to perform the refund into Store Credits, with which a customer can later pay 
for other items in this store.
